The subject of the Holy Grail
has been hotly debated and contested for hundreds of years.
Popularized by Indiana Jones' adventurous quest,
the grail is thought to be anything from a chalice
to an ethereal substance called the philosopher's stone,
to a spear.
But what if it's something much more personal
and within the grasp of each one of us?
Mark Pinkham is the North American Grand Prior
of the International Order of the Gnostic Templars.
He has joined with the famed Sinclair family
to bring the true essence of the Templar's mission
back to public consciousness.
Mark says the Templar path
was obscured a couple centuries ago
when money mixed with their agenda.
The whole subject of the Knight Templar
is very confusing to an awful lot of people,
and to most people, it's been non-existent
until they read either The Da Vinci Code
or one of the other books that have come along,
some of the authors we know about.
And really, you've made this your life's work,
but there has to be a history, personally for you,
to have jumped onto this path.
That doesn't just happen to everyone.
Would you mind telling us your personal story
and the lineage as to how you ended up in this position?
Sure.
Well, as you know, I'm a writer, and some years ago
I got the inspiration to write about the Knights Templars.
I didn't know where it was all gonna lead,
but I figured that I'd start off by interviewing
some Knight Templars,
and I was drawn to a man named Ian Sinclair.
He's part of Clan Sinclair.
They built Rosslyn Chapel, and so there was
something very valuable there for me.
I knew I had to talk to this guy.
That even ends up in Dan Brown's work.
Exactly, right.
As a pop figure, he's there.
Definitely, definitely.
Anyway, I started talking to him on the phone,
interviewing him, and we hit it off
like long-lost brothers, virtually.
Talked forever, and my wife still would like to kill me
because of our phone bill for that month. (both laugh)
There was a resonance?
There was a major resonance, exactly.
Well, at the time, he was one of the bigwigs
of Militi Templi Scotia,
which was the main Knight Templar organization in Scotland.
Well, soon after I did the interview with him,
that organization just gradually dissolved, fell apart.
That was a big surprise.
I mean, it had been going very strong
for, you know, a couple hundred years.
And so, the higher-ups went off
and they created their own Templar organizations.
Ian Sinclair went off,
and he founded this Scottish Knight Templars.
There's two divisions in it.
There is the more conservative,
that's more a reflection of the kind of Templar orders
that are out there today,
and then there's ours, which is more mystical.
Yes, the Gnostic.
It's the Gnostic,
and we believe, as do the Sinclairs,
that the Templars were very much connected
to a Gnostic mystical tradition
that they learned and then they inherited in the Holy Land
and brought with them back into Europe.
For much the time that the Templars were around,
it would've been part of the Templar tradition,
a very, very important part, but a lot of it has been lost.
Ian decided, and I decided,
we decided together that we were going to revive
that ancient tradition.
You hear often about the great rituals
and stuff that happen when you're being
initiated into the order.
And some of this has appeared in some pop literature.
Some of it, when you start digging,
you look at Tony Bushby's work
and some of the other amazing writers
that are out there but lesser known,
you delve even deeper into that,
the whole notion of this ritual,
which I've always been intrigued with
for a variety of reasons,
personal and also in the line as a journalist.
Can you talk about some of that
in your own journey of becoming a Gnostic Templar,
and some of what you had to pass through,
the rites of passage that occurred after this?
Well, let me say
that the Templars were famous for their heresy.
It was because of thr heresy that was the downfall
and dissolution of the order.
Give a little background on that.
As we know it today,
after the Templars were initiated
into these Gnostic traditions and these,
they brought them back into Europe
and they started practicing the rites of these traditions
in their preceptories.
Give us the time frame on that, too.
Well, we're talking about 12th, 13th centuries, okay?
So of course, in Europe at that time,
it was purely the Catholic tradition.
So anything that wasn't Catholic was heresy.
But this was really heresy. (laughs)
Because it was pagan in its essence?
Yeah, this really pushed the envelope, absolutely.
Our order was infiltrated by King Phillip IV
and Pope Clement V at the time.
They found what they were looking for.
They knew we were heretics,
but King Phillip wanted our money,
and this was a perfect way of bringing us down
so he could take our money.
So we were involved with rites that involved
transmitting what we called the Holy Grail Energy,
which is also known around the world as the Holy Spirit,
as the Serpent Power of Kundalini in the East.
Or Kabal?
Yes.
Yes, these energy extension selves, yes.
Exactly, once that energy enters you,
then it does the work of evolving you
and opening up what we call the centers of Gnosis,
the centers of intuitive wisdom.
When that happens,
so many answers to questions that you've always had
are right there.
What am I doing here?
What's this universe about?
Who am I?
All those answers just bubble up within you.
Our initiation ceremonies,
during that time period when we were in Europe,
were to transmit that power from one,
well, the Grand Master or a high-ranking Templar,
to a new initiate.
There was different ways of doing it.
One of the main ways was
via the breath of the Templar Master.
There was the kiss.
He would actually plant his lips on the initiate.
It wasn't a love affair thing.
It wasn't a love affair, no.
At least not that kind that we think of it,
but there was a transmission of that power
through his breath,
which is actually a very common practice in the East,
but not in the West, obviously.
Then there was the kissing
at certain strategic points on the body,
below the navel, at the base of the spine,
those are seats of this energy in the East of Kundalini.
That's another traditional way of awakening
that energy in somebody.
And so, these rites had to happen
in order to begin the Gnostic path for the new initiate
so that he could open up to that knowledge
and that wisdom.
It was this power that we came to know of
as the true Holy Grail.
It was this power that we were the guardians of,
and it was this power that we actually symbolized as a cup
although it wasn't the cup.
If there is a Holy Grail that's a cup,
it's a Holy Grail because it has this power attached to it.
That's why it's a Holy Grail.
There's been many, many Holy Grails throughout history.
And this is something we'll get to
a little bit further on as we go through the history a bit
about the whole notion of the Holy Grail.
That's kind of where we have to end up on this story, right?
(laughs)
Of course.
You went through the rituals, I assume.
You had to go through a ritual,
and you became initiated into this order at what point?
I can't tell you the whole ritutual.
No, I understand.
Because the main transmission for me,
to become a Grand Prior,
was the ceremony of becoming a Grand Prior
which only myself and my international Grand Prior
know anything about, and can only speak about.
But there was a transmission of energy
that came through that particular ceremony.
The other ceremonies
were similar to traditional Templar rituals
like the knighting of the sword,
but there were some Gnostic goddess elements
that were also involved, as well.
There were some meditations.
There was some transmissions that occurred, certainly.
But for me, in my experience,
the real transmission seemed to happen during that time
when I did become the Grand Prior,
and it seemed like that there was an energy
or is an energy that's passed
from one Grand Prior to the next.
That's how we know the Templars,
is that there was an energy that passed
with Grand Prior, or one Grand Master to the next
who became the head of the order
and became the fountainhead of that energy.
It's important to point out at this point,
and you made an allusion to it a moment ago,
that in the Gnostic Templar order,
this is really viewed holistically
going back into some of the original
archetypes and such that included the goddess.
This isn't just a patriarchal
type of organization in this sense.
In fact, there are even women in the order, are there not?
Yes, absolutely.
We are part of a Gnostic lineage
that was passed to us.
And this Gnostic lineage, if you take it back far enough,
begins with the goddess tradition.
It comes out of the goddess tradition.
All Gnostic traditions come out the goddess tradition
because Gnosis, or Gnosticism
is about going off and finding your own truth
without anybody or anything telling you how it is.
Is it like an original knowing,
or innate knowing?
Yes, it is.
There's no need for any intermediary or priest
to connect you with the higher source.
You're right there.
It's a constant communion.
Now if you study up the goddess tradition throughout time,
that's the way it's always, go off
and have your own experience.
Feel it, be with it, unite with it.
That's what we try to do.
That's the kind of experience we try to give
within our organization.
But according to tradition,
our first Grand Master, Hugues de Payens,
right after we were formed in 1118 AD,
he was initiated into what they called
this Johannite lineage,
also known as the Holy Grail lineage,
that came through Jesus, Mary Magdalene,
John the Apostle.
Ultimately, it started way back in the East, the Far East,
and came West with the tribe known as the Mandaean people,
and they're the only surviving Gnostic sect
from ancient time that still exists.
They exist in southern Iraq.
They came West,
and they united with the Persian civilization,
Egyptian civilization, Sumerian.
Finally, they merge with the Essenes.
And within the Essenes, they became a branch
of Essenes known as the Nasareans, or the Nazarenes.
I'm sure you've heard that word,
but in truth, if you study the Gnostic gospels,
it means "he of Gnostic wisdom."
That means something totally different
than what we commonly know of it.
Within that sect of the Nazarenes
was born John the Baptist, Jesus, John the Apostle.
John the Baptist became the first Grand Master
of this lineage in the West,
so he's the founder of the Gnostic lineage in the West.
He passed the Grand Mastership to Jesus.
This was during the baptism on the river Jordan.
Jesus passed it to Mary Magdalene and John the Apostle.
It's said that that happened on the cross.
They were the only two apostles at the foot of the cross.
After that time, it passed down the lineage
of many Grand Masters.
They were all named John,
because John was never meant to be a name.
It was actually a title meaning,
"he of Gnostic power and wisdom."
After the first crusade,
our first Grand Master, Hugues de Payens,
got initiated in that order
and he became the Grand Master of it.
So essentially we adopted it, or we inherited it,
and it became one with us.
How we look at it is that Jesus really, essentially,
created two lineages.
The more fundamentalist, the more patriarchal,
the Catholic lineage with St. Peter,
the more matriarchal, the Gnostic,
the alchemical with John the Apostle and Mary Magdalene.
We are the representatives of that lineage,
and it's that lineage that we are trying now to revive.
It was always part of us,
and then, when the secret societies were formed
that split off from us,
they became representatives of it as well.
They were all alchemists, they were all Gnostics.
Yes, that's where I wanted to see if we can...
Now this is going to become a little tangential,
but it's hard not to with this story,
(laughs)
and that is the whole notion
of the Knight Templar and the word "Illuminati."
Can you talk about that?
I'm used to talking about it,
as you can probably imagine.
Yeah, if you would share.
The Illuminati started off as a Gnostic
tradition, a Gnostic sect.
The original Grand Masters,
they sat around a five-pointed star of the goddess.
They wanted everyone to have a Gnostic experience,
and the way they were going to do that
is by bringing down all authority on the planet.
Anybody or anything that's telling you
what to do or what to think,
they were gonna bring it down.
All monarchies, the church, everything.
So, all heretics by nature,
yeah, by virtue of what they're doing.
They were essentially carrying on our work,
and they were also getting vengance for us
because it was the church and the monarchy
that brought us down.
Anyway, that was their goal.
In the end, it turned out to be something quite different.
The new world order was gonna essentially be no order.
Right, and that's where I wanted to go
from here, because this is linked together.
I mean, there's a direct link here between the Templars,
the Illuminati, and the new world order,
and I wanna know how you perceive that.
Like I said, it's not how it was originally envisioned.
What happened was that the Jews had been
disenfranchised at the time of the Illuminati.
They couldn't become Freemasons.
Now, there was a big conference
where the Illuminati and Freemasons
came together as one grand organization.
This was, like, in Wilhelmbad in Germany in 1782,
And at that time, it was decided,
well, the Jews can also be a part of that organization.
They were excluded before, but now they could be.
Soon after that happened, then the Jews,
who are becoming the world bankers,
the Rothschilds and the Oppenheimers,
they wanted to get on the bandwagon.
They were just right up the road in Frankfurt,
and they said, "Well that sounds good.
"Let us be a part of this.
"We know you're gonna need us
"because you want to start these world revolutions
"and bring down monarchies,
"the French Revolution and so forth,
"you're going to need our money."
Interestingly, the Templars had
a history as the first bankers.
That's true, yeah.
Okay go ahead, yes.
So the Jews had their own agenda,
which was different than the original Illuminati agenda.
The Jews felt totally disenfranchised
from the very beginning, and they were Zionists.
They believed, virtually,
that they should be ruling the world.
There was a faction of Jews that were Zionists
that believed this,
that God had given them the world to rule over.
As the chosen people.
Yeah, as the chosen people.
And so that's what happened, is that gradually,
the Illuminati became infiltrated by the Jewish bankers,
and it was really the agenda of he Jewish bankers
that took over the Illuminati
and took it in another direction.
And that's the way it is today.
They became, basically, the rulers of the world
which they are, in essence.
Right, he who controls the coffers, right.
So with that split, then what happened to the others
who had been carrying the original intent?
Is that what's being revived now?
Those that carry the original Tem-
They basically went off and became a part
of other secret societies,
or they became part of Freemasonry,
or they became a part of Rosicrucianism.
There were many other secret societies
that continue to be Gnostics and alchemists.
So they essentially went off and became one of them.
That's all.
Certainly there were some that continued
within in the Illuminati for some time,
and still thought that they were going to be able
to realize their original agenda,
which eventually they find out that wasn't gonna happen.
Which, rather than take down the structures
would be to control the structures.
Right, I mean the membership
and the agenda today is
100% different than what it was.
I see what you're saying, yeah.
It's totally different.
Anyway, they split off,
and they became the new Templars or the Rosicrucians.
Basically, all the secret societies,
the ones that were the alchemists and the Gnostics,
they were all united under the symbol of the rose,
and you've heard the term "sub rosa."
Yes.
"Under the rose,"
because the rose is the symbol of the goddess.
It's often represented with five petals.
Five is the number of the goddess,
and it's a red rose because red rose
is a symbol of Gnosis and alchemy.
The red in the rose represents the fire of alchemy,
and the opening of it represents the opening of gnosis.
It comes through that fire, so it's the red rose.
The wisdom that was taught by the secret society sub rosa
was the secrets of alchemy and Gnosis.
It was the secrets of alchemy
that these secret societies protected.
It wasn't necessarily blood line,
altough that might have been part of the secrets,
but their main secret was alchemy.
Because if you looking through history,
they were all alchemists.
All of them were.
This is an important facet
that often is not known to the public at large
when you hear about the Knight Templar.
We think it's, oh, a dozen or so guys
that helped protect some pilgrims (laughs)
traveling to the Holy Land once upon a time,
and end of story, they all went bye-bye.
Well initially, there was only a few,
and that's all they needed.
Now, if they were going to protect the Holy Land,
it would've taken a lot more, obviously.
They only needed nine knights.
Why? Because their agenda at that time
was to retrieve some ancient manuscripts
and treasures that had been buried by their ancestors.
Their ancestors, that's an important one.
This is their ancestors,
because the time of the Roman takeover of Jerusalem,
many of the elders amongst the Jews,
they left, they fled.
They went into Europe,
and they became a part of the royal families.
The Knights that become the Templars later on
were descended from them.
The secrets of where a lot of Jewish treasures
were hid at that time passed down through these families.
So when the Templars came in,
they knew exactly where to go to dig
to retrieve these documents and these treasures,
and that's what they did.
A lot of the digging happened under Solomon's Temple.
They dug down 20 feet into bedrock.
You don't do that unless you're darn sure--
(chuckles) There's something there.
You know there's something there, exactly right.
And they found it.
So after nine years, they left with five huge cases.
This is the legend.
They travelled up into Europe,
and those cases eventually ended up in Kilwinning,
which was the first Freemasonic lodge in Scotland.
They were there for some time.
And then they went to Rosslyn Castle
and the sat there for a number of years.
Rosslyn Castle was the home
of the Sinclair earls of Rosslyn.
Because the Sinclairs and the Templars
were totally interconnected since the very beginning,
when Hugues de Payens, the first Grand Master,
married Catherine de St. Clair, so married
into the St. Clair, or Sinclair, clan.
Anyway, the boxes are in Rosslyn Chapel,
Rosslyn Castle, excuse me, I'm jumping ahead of myself.
And there is a big fire.
The first thing they take out of Rosslyn Castle
is the boxes.
And six months to the day almost after that,
they start building Rosslyn Chapel,
right next to Rosslyn Castle.
So it's believed that that might be the main reason
that they built Rosslyn Chapel,
was to hold those five boxes.
And what is said to be in those boxes?
Well, a lot of treasures from the Jewish elders,
but also a lot of documentation that shows the connection
between the Templars and that Johannite lineage
that came from Jesus, Mary Magdelene, John the Apostle.
Apparently, there is a lot of documentation,
documents and illustrations that are very heretical.
One of them actually, today, is hanging up
in the University of Ghent
library in Belgium.
Because this one was actually copied over.
As the Templars were bringing those five trunks up
through Europe, one of the documents
was taken out and copied over.
And today, it's in the University of Ghent library,
and it's called The Heavenly Jerusalem.
It's an illustration.
And those that have studied it say,
"Okay, well, The Heavenly Jerusalem is supposed to be
"founded by the Messiah, that's what he's
"gonna bring to this world, is the Heavenly Jerusalem."
But if you study this particular illustration,
well, Jesus is nowhere to be found.
Now, where is Jesus?
Well, apparently, what the document says,
what the illustration says is, John the Baptist
was the founder of the new Jerusalem,
making him the Messiah.
This is typical Johannite heretical wisdom
that supposedly was passed down to the Templars, you see?
So we believe, since we know that at least one document
has that heresy, that heretical information,
that there's probably gonna be a number of others
that also do.
Might there be
a reason to keep those hidden?
Definitely.
Why? Well, there's a couple reasons,
one of which is that it can be very explosive
to get that information out there,
as you can imagine, right?
Because these documents, one will say,
"Jesus was one of many sons of God in this long lineage,
"this Johannite lineage."
Many Messiahs,
yes.
Right.
Not just himself, but there were many.
And that John was co-Messiah.
Also, that the true lineage,
and the most ancient lineage in the true lineage
that Jesus received, passed on to John the Apostle
and Mary Magdelene, not St. Peter.
Right.
And we're actually finding that in some
of the Gnostic gospels today.
In the Pistis Sophia, for example,
Jesus is quoted as saying about John and Mary
that they will attain more than any of his other apostles,
and they will receive more from him
than any of the rest of them.
It says right in the Pistis Sofia.
So you can find that information
in the Gnostic gospels today.
And as we know, in the Gospel of Phillip
and the Gospel of Mary, it says Jesus loved Mary
greater than all the rest of them.
He taught her many things that he didn't teach
the other apostles.
So it's right there.
It's right there,
hiding in plain sight.
It is.
But there are
vested interests in that, that that doesn't--
Obviously, you know, there's a lot,
a lot of reasons why we'd want to keep that secret
and a lot of reasons why, you know,
some people out there would like to destroy
those documents.
So it's been well secreted away
and hidden for a very long time.
Exactly right.
What about the Knight...
You gave a talk recently and I saw a little sheet
that mentioned this, and it was talking about
the Templars and the new world order,
now making the link there.
Can you make that?
I mean, would you mind making that link
or talking about that?
Well, like I said,
the new world order, for us,
is different than it is for the Jewish bankers.
Right, I understand.
We understand that new world order.
What is your new world order?
My new world order is to
unite the religions, all the religions around the world,
by showing their common links,
and ultimately show that the foundation of all religion
is the Gnostic alchemical path.
Religion doesn't exist without the Gnostic alchemical path.
All religions were founded by a Gnostic master
who went out and had his experience, had his visions,
received his wisdom, he came back,
and he taught his disciples, they made a religion out of it.
From that point on, anybody in the religion
either had to have that same experience
as that original Gnostic, or they couldn't have
that experience because it was decided he's the one,
only son of God, so you can't have that, one or the other.
But either way, you're told what to believe
and what vision you can have and can't have.
But the foundation of all religion
is that Gnostic alchemical path.
That makes total sense.
It's from a person's experience or inner wisdoms
and knowledge, and others resonate with it
and begin following, and therefore you have a religion.
Right.
Yeah, so in the purest sense,
that makes total sense.
Well, right now we are working with people
called the Yazidis in northern Iraq.
They claim they're oldest religion in the world.
They came from the East, they came from India.
We believe that originally, they came
from a place much more ancient,
the ancient continent of Lemuria, some people call it.
And their deity,
their main deity is called
the Peacock Angel, and he was the founder
of the Gnostic path, the Gnostic tradition.
He brought the wisdom to this Earth.
He's also known in many other traditions
around the world with many different names.
Give us some of the names
we would recognize and some we wouldn't,
just to see that this is,
that all of these traditions have named that influence.
Well, the Hindus know him as
Murugan, Skanda, Sanat Kumara, Karthigai,
many different names for that one deity.
The Muslims know him as Al-Khadir.
We got to know him as St. George.
He's also known amongst the pagans
as the Green Man.
He is Quetzlcoatl, the plumed serpent.
In South American tradition.
Thoth Hermes, of the Egyptian tradition.
He's Melchizedek, he's Michael, he's Metatron,
he's all these things.
And what is the essence of this being?
The essence of this being is Gnosis itself.
The Hindus refer to him as
the Jna Pandita.
"Jna" is the Hindu word, or Sanskrit word for Gnosis,
the original teacher of Gnosis.
But they also refer to him as that original
power of Kundalini.
And so, he teaches
by moving through you as the Kundalini
and opening your centers of Gnosis.
And Kundalini figures very greatly
into the Gnostic Templar tradition,
the opening of the Kundalini's centers.
Absolutely.
Which is the
opening to knowledge and light, right?
Well, exactly.
Anybody can have a Gnostic experience,
whether that energy is awake or not.
But to be completely established in that wisdom,
and to ultimately make that last step
into super consciousness and to the infinite,
that energy needs to be awakened,
so your whole body, your whole beingness
can go through the transportation it needs
in order to raise your frequency,
so you can have that experience.
So yeah, he's the Jna Pandita,
he's the original teacher of Gnosis.
The Sufis knew him as Al-Khadir.
They would say that,
when a Sufi is ready to get initiated
in his spiritual life, he'd show up
and transform himself into them
and do all the work of taking him
to that higher frequency.
Of course, as Thoth Hermes in that tradition,
he was the original master of alchemy.
As the Quetzlcoatl,
he was the original divine master.
So yeah, he's known all over the world.
There's so much more that you can say about him.
And I'm learning, daily, about him.
But he's also, one of the important things about him
is, he's also known as the original son of the goddess.
Now, before there was a tradition of the god
and the son of god, there was a tradition
of the goddess and the son of the goddess.
And the goddess has had her mysteries,
which were these Gnostic alchemical mysteries,
and he was the guardian of those mysteries.
And so, if you're gonna revive the goddess tradition,
as we are doing now, you also have to revive
the tradition of the goddess' son.
And that's who he is.
And when we talk about alchemy,
this is really central to what you perceive
and understand alchemy to be,
which is the marriage of the male and the female,
or the dualities of everything, right?
That's exactly it.
A lot of people think that alchemy is simply
taking two different substances,
two polar opposite substances, uniting them together
and creating some elixir of immortality,
(mumbles), immortality or whatever.
That is part of alchemy.
But there's a higher level of alchemy,
a more secret level of alchemy which has to do
with uniting the male, female energies
within the human body.
And there are many practices, the practices of yoga,
essentially do that.
Yogi is a form of alchemy.
So once you unite the male, female together
through these practices, then a fire is created.
This is the fire of alchemy, fire of transformation.
And that goes to awaken your latent flame,
your latent fire, your latent Kundalini that they say
exists at the base of your spine.
And once that's awakened, it does all the work
of transforming you and all that.
So yeah, it's very, very important part
of the Gnostic path.
You might say that Gnosis and alchemy,
they're two sides of the same coin.
You can't separate the two.
In order to achieve Gnosis, alchemy has to occur.
And once you're on the Gnostic path for any given time,
alchemy naturally occurs within you,
because, if you're practicing Gnosis,
you are balancing the right, the left,
the male, the female, the left brain
and the right brain, that's true Gnosis.
That's the combination, the coming together
of the intuition and the intellect.
On that note, let's go right into the grail.
This is a really meaty subject.
There have been certainly lots of speculation
and a lot of historical perspective
on what the grail may be.
But what you've just touched on, I think,
is closer to part of what you have come
to see the grail as.
One thing we try to do in our order is, make the
holy grail more personal and more attainable for people,
that they don't think they have to become
Indiana Jones and go to Petra to find it, whatever.
You can find it within your own self.
It's basically a matter of uniting the polarity
within yourself and getting that activation.
And there's many ways you can do that.
Yoga, meditation, you can go to vortexes.
Vortex is, a vortex is created by a male line
uniting with a female line to create
an upward moving spiral, which is the serpent.
If you sit within that energy field,
your polarity unites and your upward moving spiral,
your upward moving Kundalini energy, is awakend.
So this is why we have our preceptory hearing in Sedona.
Yes, and people come from all over the world
to Sedona.
Exactly.
For this reason.
To sit in these vortexes, both male and female,
upward and downward spirals.
Exactly right.
What's special about Sedona is the red rock.
There is a very high concentration of iron.
So the natural spiral
is empowered
and is greatly energized
by this iron in the red rock.
It moves it quicker and amplifies it.
And if you get within the field of the red rock,
your electromagnetic field is activated.
And if you start activating your electromagnetic field,
then higher levels get activated,
especially the second one, the ethereal body
where Kundalini exists.
But another reason is because the red rock
also vibrates in your root chakra
with the frequency of which is the red color.
So you're constantly...
Stirring things up.
Having lived here for seven years, (giggles)
it stirs things up.
It's the Sedona Shake 'n' Bake, right?
I mean, we're all,
either we've got a strong Kundalini
activation going on, or we're always this close to it,
all of us that are here.
Right.
That's very true.
And so, the grail, in your understanding, then,
is really more the awakening and uniting
of these energies within every single individual?
It's the light coming back to knowledge?
Absolutely. Absolutely.
If you study the holy grail tradition,
you'll find that there's many, many holy grails.
There was never just one holy grail, never was.
And you'll also find that,
generally, what makes something a holy grail is,
it was in contact with a Great Master.
Either he blessed it, or somehow it had been
in contact with his person.
For example, the articles of the passion.
You know, the crown of thorns,
the cross, the veil of Veronica, the shroud,
all those things acquire the powers of holy grails
because they were in contact with Jesus,
who was full of that holy grail power,
that holy grail energy.
And this is the way it is today.
Of course, the cup held his blood and his sweat.
It's totally infused with that holy grail power.
So it's always been the power.
It's always been the frequency.
You also, in the same talk,
and we'll go from there into this,
one of the subjects you were speaking about
was the expected return of the hidden king of the world.
What does that mean?
Who's that being, and what does that mean?
Well, (sighs)
how many days do you have? (laughs)
Can you do it in three minutes or less?
That'd be a record for me.
We'll try.
Basically, go back to
the goddess culture and her son.
Her son was the Green Man.
There's a legend, basically,
that there was a consciousness
that came to this Earth, 1,000s, millions of years ago,
which the Yezidis refer to as the Peacock Angel,
that came here and infused its energy
and consciousness into this planet.
They say that the Peacock Angel arrived
when this was totally desolation on this planet,
and it came down.
It spread its colors, those peacock colors
in its plumes, around the planet.
And then it left.
But it left a part of itself.
And so, basically, the soul of this planet
is what was left behind.
It's like a part of the Peacock Angel's,
part of this consciousness that came,
which became known as the king of the world.
It is a consciousness, a definite consciousness.
In (mumbles), they refer to it as the Planetary Logos,
the Planetary Mind.
The Gaia.
Is that the same as Gaia?
Gaia.
Yeah, it is.
But essentially,
the son of the goddess
is essentially the divine mind and the power
of the infinite spirit.
And the son of the goddess is passed,
he is the energy that's passed down
through all lineages through all time.
He's the Quetzlcoatl, he's the Hermes,
he's the Divine Mind and the power.
They say in the East that there have a lineage
of masters that refer to them,
refer to themselves as the king of the world.
On some level, they are directing
everything that's happening on this planet.
But it appears as though it's been a lineage,
just like the other lineages.
And each king of the world receives
the Divine Mind and the power
of this original Green Man
or this original consciousness.
Who's still protecting and acting
on behalf of the goddess?
Um-hm.
So how does that infor-,
what is it that he's protecting and acting on behalf of,
and what is the reemergence of this being,
what does this mean?
He is, essentially,
he is the essence of the goddess' teachings.
He is the Gnosis, he is the alchemical power
that gets initiated.
He teaches, the true wisdom of the goddess
is the wisdom of the infinite,
the wisdom of everything.
And he teaches that through working through you
and opening up your Gnostic centers.
But at some point, a lot of his wisdom
was written down, documented,
and those became the texts of the mystery schools.
And he's always said to be the founder.
He's the founder of the Great White Brotherhood.
And the Great White Brotherhood, like all
the great mystery schools around the world,
the most important teaching was the teaching
of alchemy and Gnosis.
Now, how his presence is gonna be known again
is that,
on a fourth dimensional plane,
which a lot of us are gonna be able to see into,
a lot of us already can,
we're going to be able to see him.
This is what the Yazidis have told me.
This is what I've experienced personally,
is, if you get into his dimension,
first of all, everything turns into eyes.
You see, like, zillions of eyes around you.
But, you know what's interesting, it's like
all the forms of nature open their eyes at the same time.
Everything's been asleep and just, like, woke up.
But then you look at the eyes, and, well,
they're not human eyes.
What's different about them?
And then you see, "Well, okay, I got it.
"Those are the eyes of the peacock feather."
And then you look at them some more.
"Oh, well, they are a peacock feather."
And then you see these peacock feathers are joined
as little peacocks.
You got little peacocks running around your legs.
And then you see these little peacocks
are joined as bigger peacocks, and these are joined
as bigger peacocks.
And then you look around and virtually,
the mountains turn into peacocks.
It's the most bizarre thing you ever seen.
I been trained, I was trained for a number of years
in Shamanism down in Peru,
and that's where I started having these visions
of the Peacock Angel.
And I was, like, I didn't know what it was
until I started studying with the Yazidis.
So once you have little peacocks
and the mountain's a peacock,
feathers and eyes and everything, then what?
What happens next?
Well, first of all, you say, "Oh, my God."
There are a lot of peacock eyes around here.
Where am I?
I'm in the land of the peacock, what is this?
And then you come to find out.
One of the experiences is
that you realize that all those feathers,
all those eyes, all those feathers, are part of you.
You are the Peacock Angel.
He is us and we are he.
On some level, he is us and we are him.
We're the creators.
Yeah.
Co-creators.
Right.
Another way of looking at it, too, is,
if he is the consciousness of this world,
his will moves through all of us, it walks
on the surface of it.
So we are him and he's us.
He was the first form, the first form
that spirit took when it came into manifestation.
We are that spirit that took that first form.
That's why he is us and we are him.
So we're returning to--
We're returning to our powers.
Us.
Exactly, we're returning to us.
Our true selves.
Yes.
Another thing that happens when you see yourself
as the Peacock Angel, what happens?
You say, "God, don't I look nice?"
"Aren't I beautiful?"
"Never looked quite this nice."
And you see where the pride crept in.
And that's a whole another chapter
of the Peacock Angel, because there was the fall,
there was the Luciferian legend,
which is totally different than what we know in the West.
But there was a fall.
It was a fall.
Because the lord of this planet did fall,
it did become Lucifer, you know?
But it became Lucifer through us,
because he's the collective conscious of us all,
through the ego, exactly.
Through the ego.
Vanity, greed.
The human will became the will of the ego.
He fell, we fell, we all fell together.
This all comes back around again,
and we get another chance.
But we don't necessarily have to go into ego?
No. But the ego was necessary.
We had to go through that process of ego
so that we would feel totally separate from each other
and say, "Well, what is this?
"What is going on?
"I don't like this, I'm gonna find something.
"There's gotta be more to life."
And then you go on a search that takes you
inside yourself, and so that point,
finally you realize, "Wow. I know who I am.
"I know what this is all about.
"I know I'm God, goddess incarnated physical body.
"And I know that I created this, I know it all."
So we have to go through that phase,
in order to go on that search.
We had to go through that process.
It wasn't a negative or bad thing, it wasn't
necessarily a fall.
It was just the next stage of evolution.
So in that evolution,
we shall all become self-empowered heretics.
(both laugh)
I like that.
And I do, too, actually.
I'll subscribe to that.
I think most people watching these
can resonate with that.
And that is the journey of the Gnostic Templar.
And I have a question to ask you now.
I don't know if this is fair, and I don't mean
to kind of, you know,
just come at you from the side on this.
Throughout this tradition, they repeatedly speak
of various incarnations of the same energy.
And we'd talked about some of this off-camera,
where that energy, that being, was then later
in the form of another being and another,
and this knowledge was passed on
and preserved and passed on.
Do you have any kind of flickers of remembrance
of your own heritage, perhaps, from other times?
My own connection to maybe the Templars
or maybe to...?
Yeah.
I have specific remembering of one,
which must be the most important one for me,
at least for me to know about now,
because that was the one that was revealed to me.
And it was actually revealed to me
about the same time as when I first came down here,
a lot of what I call Lemurian energy,
a lot of remembering about the origins
of the Gnostic alchemical tradition
and the masters that founded it.
Actually, I was living in Washington at the time,
and I walked out my back door, went into the woods
and I called upon my guides, "Masters, show me
"who I was, what I'm doing here,
"and I wanna know now.
"I'm not waiting any longer."
Okay, you know.
So they say, "Okay, cool it, calm down.
"Just go over to that hill, climb up the hill."
I did, plied down some ferns, lie down.
And then my crown shakra, (vocalizes), wide open.
I felt this white light pour into me.
It covered me like a sheet.
And then, I just woke up.
The dreamer woke up.
I was the dream.
And I disappeared.
And the dreamer that woke up was a priest king
who had lived on Lemuria when Lemuria was,
like, many, many, like, 1,000s of islands.
And so there was many priest kings.
But they were like, like it's enlightened priest kings.
I never felt this kind of energy, this wisdom
that came to me at that time.
And so the memories came back
of having been there, and having been
the priest king of an island
near which is now China and Indonesia and that area.
And, you know, a kind of civilization
we'd created at that time.
But then I realized that that was my initial
connection to this being, this consciousness,
this Sanat Kumara, because,
at that time, he was considered to be the king of kings.
We knew him.
We knew him as the king of the world.
It's like the Green Man,
elemental true knowledge.
Yeah, right.
Because we could sense things at that time
that we can't now.
We were more fourth dimensional.
I mean, so we could see him.
I mean, if you wanted to see the Peacock Angel,
he was all around.
And so, it was from that point on
I knew that I had made a strong connection
to that alchemical Gnostic path
and that, from that point on, I was going to be
incarnating in lifetimes to further it
and to preserve it, which I know I have.
And I have some sense of
incarnating during the time of the Essenes,
and then certainly later on as the Templars,
and within India as a Yogi.
All related to that Gnostic alchemical path.
And so, now I've incarnated again
to work on, to help with the revival of it,
because now is the time.
Now is the time to revive the Gnostic alchemical path
and the goddess tradition, all of it.
Together.
Absolutely.
And you have done an absolutely remarkable job
in terms of the research in your book.
I mean, you have pulled threads together
that I had no idea even existed.
And so, for anyone that wants to really
get further into the knowledge of
where this path came from
and from where all of the different alchemical
types of strands of knowledge came from and such,
they've got to read your book.
It is the history, in the sense, I mean,
we've abbreviated it, through me,
just a moment ago, but
this is the whole thing.
Yeah, there's a lot more to it.
So if you're intrigued with this,
we have the website link underneath
the window right now where everybody's watching
so that we will find their way to your book.
And I thank you so much for taking the time today.
Help give us an overview and essence
of what the Gnostic Templars are, because again,
most of us have really no idea
because it's too clouded with all of the other
secret societies and verbiage of the day.
Well, that is our service to the world,
is to spread that knowledge.
And now we're going to be going out
and doing a lot of seminars.
We wanna cover the world with this knowledge.
We want to actually create a network of people
that are working to reunite the religions
and show the links, and to show the common origins,
which is the Gnostic alchemical path,
and to spread Gnosis throughout the world.
You can go much further into the history
of the Knight Templars by reading Mark's book,
Guardians of the Holy Grail.
It goes into a great deal of historical documentation.
If the subject intrigues you, you can go to Amazon
or other booksellers.
Until next time, thanks for watching CMN.
(gentle sitar music)